Let's walk through the solution to the vehicle check-in exercise,
which will help us get ready to work more with joining
two streaming DataFrames from different data sources.
The first thing I'm going to do is import the Spark session.
I'm going to import all of the SQL functions and all of the SQL types.
I'm going to create a schema that matches my JSON format.
Make sure the field names match correctly and the types.
I'm going to do another schema that is for this payload with the same fields,
reservationid, locationNames, truckNumber, and status.
Then I'm going to create a new Spark session.
I'm going to do that using the name vehicle check-in.
I'm going to set my log level to warn.
Then I'm going to connect to Kafka using my Spark session,
set my format to Kafka,
my bootstrap servers to localhost 9092.
I'm going to subscribe to vehicle status topic,
set my offsets to earliest,
and then I'm going to convert this raw DataFrame here using a select expression.
I will cast my key and value as strings,
capture that in another DataFrame.
I'll then call the dot withColumn method on that DataFrame.
I'm going to overload the value calling from JSON I'll extract the current value.
I will use the vehicle status schema to split the JSON into multiple fields,
which will then be found in value dot star.
I'll select those using
the COL function then I'll create a temporary view called vehicleStatus.
I'm going to select all the data from that view into this DataFrame.
I'm going to repeat the process for the other topic.
You'll notice here I have another topic called check-in.
I then have to convert this data as well.
I need to convert it from JSON using the vehicle check-in schema.
Now I'm going to create that vehicle check-in view.
I'm going to select the data from that view.
You'll notice I aliased this truck number as check-in
truck number so that the column name is different when I go to do the join.
Now I've got checkinStatusDF,
VehicleStatusSelectStarDF, which came from selecting that data.
I'm going to join the two using
the dot join on the first and then inside of the dot join,
I'll pass the second.
The second argument is the expr,
which is my join expression where I say the fields that I want to join on.
Then last I'm going to take the DataFrame that I got and write that to the console.
I'm going to CD to home,
workspace, Spark, end list there.
I've got a script to submit my vehicle check-in solution and I'm going to run that.
Now before I do, I want to make sure that Spark is running.
I see Spark here and here.
I also see several Java processes that means Kafka's running.
Now I'm going to run that script.
We should see the joined output after the join runs.
It can take around one and a half minutes
for a join application to run and start producing output.
We're going wait here patiently for that to run.
The blinking cursor means it's still running.
There haven't been any errors encountered.
Later we'll find that we actually want to watch that cursor to know how things are going.
Here we see the output of the join.
We have statusTruckNumber, destination, milesFromShop,
odometerReading, reservationid, locationName, checkinTruckNumber, and status.
All of that is showing in individual columns because of the join that we've created.
I'm going to break out of this by saying Control-C.